So let's use K nearest neighbor classifier on that credit scoring data that let's check whether we can
do better than logistic regression or not.
Of course the final answer is yeah we can do better than logistic regression.
And I guess it is pretty counter intuitive because logistic regression seems to be a much more complex
model.
That's why we may have the intuition that it is going to work better.
Danny Kaye CNN algorithm.
And an algorithm has a very very simple underlying principle.
And as you can see it is able to do approximately 98 percent accuracy.
It is extremely fine.
OK.
OK so first we fudged the data from credit data that CSC we have the features as income age and loan.
We have the target valuables as defaults zero and on whether the client has defaulted or managed to
pay back the loan was extremely important for k nearest neighbor classifier.
We have to use some pre-processing and scaling.
Okay.
So as far as normalization is concerned features are usually transformed into a range before the KNM
algorithm is applied.
You may pose the question of why.
Because the distance formula depends on how the features are measured if certain features have much
larger values than other than the distance measurement will be strongly dominated by the larger values.
So we have to re skill the various features such that each one contributes relatively equally to the
distance formula.
There are two ways the minimax normalization and the transformation.
Let's talk a bit about minimax normalization.
This process transforms a feature such that all of its values fall within the range 0 and 1 normalized
feature values can be interpreted as indicating how far from 0 percent to 100 percent the original value
fall alone.
Range between the original minima and Maxima.
So first we have to find the minimum value in the data set as far as the given feature is going on and
a given item is going to be updated according to this equation.
X z equals 2 x minus the minimum of x y by the maximum minus the minimum.
So this minimax normalization is going to transform the feature of values within the range 0 and 1.
OK we have the so-called Z score normalization or standardization.
It is a way of normalizing the data set has about the algorithm uses the mean and standard deviation
instead of min and max values.
Ok so the x y is equal to x minus the mean divide by the standard deviation.
And he may pose the question a watch the use minimax normalization or z score transformation.
It depends for a principal component analyzes.
We prefer using z score normalization but for image processing where pixel intensities have to be normalized
to fit within a certain range plus when using nodal networks we prefer minimax normalization.
What's very very important that usually when dealing with machine learning algorithms or now with networks
we use some kinds of normalization or whether it is zees core standardization or minimax normalization.
We have to use something like this.
OK.
So we can use this prepossessing minimax scaler.
So we are going to use minimax normalization on the data features.
OK basically we don't have to manipulate the target because the target is either 0 or 1.
Basically it is transformed within the range 0 and 1.
OK so what's important that there is a huge difference.
After applying this min max normalization.
So if we get rid of this mean Max normalization and run the algorithm we just have to instantiate this
case neighbors classifier with 20 neighbors.
What does it mean.
K equals 220.
So the algorithm is going to find the 20 nearest items and go to decide the output class or the label
for the actual item based on the 20 nearest items.
Ok then we calculate the confusion matrix and the accuracy score.
So let's run the algorithm we doubt the minimax normalization as you can see without the minimax normalization
the accuracy is 84 percent which is not that good.
We can do better with logistic regression.
OK let's transform the teachers wait a min max normalization.
Let's say it and let's run it.
The accuracy is so much better.
It is 98 percent.
So all we can do better.
Download is the quick question.
You just have to use the very very simple concept of K nearest neighbor classifier.
There is no model at all.
We don't find even optimal barometer as we just calculate the Euclidean distances between the actual
data point and all the other data points in the data set.
We find the 20 nearest item and make the decision based on these neighbors.
OK so we will see that when dealing with finance related data came nearest neighbor algorithm is going
to be the best one possible.
So K and I agree them is working extremely fine.
OK.
In the next lecture we are going to talk about how to find the optimal value for the K peramivir.
Thanks for watching.